docs/MICROSCOPE_SETUP.md, before:

# Digital Microscope Setup Guide

This guide will help you set up and configure your digital microscope with Nomisma.

## Supported Microscopes

Nomisma is designed to work with USB digital microscopes that support the UVC (USB Video Class) protocol. The default recommended model is:

- **DM7-Z01C 4.3 inch Digital Microscope**

However, most USB microscopes should work, including:
- Jiusion Digital Microscope
- Plugable USB Digital Microscope
- AmScope Digital Microscope
- Any UVC-compatible USB camera/microscope

## Hardware Setup

### 1. Physical Connection

1. Connect the microscope to your computer via USB
2. On Linux, the device should appear as `/dev/video0` (or `/dev/video1`, `/dev/video2`, etc.). Some devices also expose `/dev/media*` nodes.
3. Verify the connection:
   ```bash
   ls -l /dev/video*
   ls -l /dev/media*
   ```

### 2. Permissions (Linux)

If you encounter permission errors, add your user to the `video` group:

```bash
sudo usermod -a -G video $USER
```

Then log out and log back in for changes to take effect.

### 3. Test the Camera

Test if the camera works with:

```bash
# Install v4l-utils if not already installed
sudo apt-get install v4l-utils

# List video devices
v4l2-ctl --list-devices

# Test camera
ffplay /dev/video0
```

## Docker Configuration

Microscope access is enabled via the optional `docker-compose.microscope.yml` override file:

```yaml
services:
  backend:
    devices:
      - /dev/video0:/dev/video0
      - /dev/media0:/dev/media0
    privileged: true
```

Start with the override:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.microscope.yml up -d
```

### Multiple Cameras

If you have multiple cameras or the microscope is not `/dev/video0`, update `docker-compose.microscope.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  backend:
    devices:
      - /dev/video1:/dev/video1  # Change to your device
      - /dev/media1:/dev/media1
```
Some microscopes expose multiple `/dev/video*` nodes for the same device. In that case, try the alternate node listed by `v4l2-ctl --list-devices`.

## Application Setup

### 1. Start the Application

```bash
./start
```

### 2. Navigate to Scan Coin Page

Open http://localhost:3000/scan in your browser.

### 3. Select Camera

The application will automatically detect available cameras. Select your microscope from the dropdown.

### 4. Adjust Focus and Lighting

- Position the coin under the microscope
- Adjust the microscope's focus wheel for a clear image
- Ensure adequate lighting (most microscopes have built-in LED lights)

### 5. Capture Image

Click the "Capture Image" button to take a photo of the coin.

## Optimal Image Capture

For best AI analysis results:

### Lighting
- Use the microscope's built-in LED lights
- Ensure even lighting across the coin surface
- Avoid harsh shadows or glare

### Focus
- Adjust focus until details are sharp
- Capture the entire coin face in the frame
- Ensure text and design elements are clearly visible

### Positioning
- Center the coin in the frame
- Keep the coin flat and parallel to the lens
- Capture both obverse (front) and reverse (back) separately

### Resolution
- The application automatically sets the camera to maximum resolution
- Typical resolution: 1920x1080 or higher
- Higher resolution = better AI analysis

## Troubleshooting

### Camera Not Detected

**Problem:** No cameras appear in the dropdown

**Solutions:**
1. Check USB connection
2. Verify device appears in `/dev/video*`
3. Restart Docker containers:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart backend
   ```
4. Check Docker logs:
   ```bash
   ./log -t backend
   ```

### Permission Denied

**Problem:** "Permission denied" error when accessing camera

**Solutions:**
1. Add user to video group (see above)
2. Check device permissions:
   ```bash
   ls -l /dev/video0
   ```
3. Ensure Docker has privileged access (set in `docker-compose.microscope.yml`)

### Poor Image Quality

**Problem:** Blurry or dark images

**Solutions:**
1. Clean the microscope lens
2. Adjust focus manually
3. Increase LED brightness
4. Ensure coin surface is clean
5. Try different camera settings in the application

### Camera Already in Use

**Problem:** "Camera is already in use" error

**Solutions:**
1. Close other applications using the camera
2. Restart the backend container:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart backend
   ```

### Wrong Camera Selected

**Problem:** Laptop webcam selected instead of microscope

**Solutions:**
1. Use the camera dropdown to select the correct device
2. Disconnect other cameras if possible
3. Check camera index in the application

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom Resolution

To set a custom resolution, modify `backend/app/services/microscope.py`:

```python
def open_camera(self, camera_index: int = 0) -> bool:
    # ...
    self.current_camera.set(cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH, 2592)  # Your width
    self.current_camera.set(cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT, 1944)  # Your height
```

### Frame Rate

Adjust FPS if needed:

```python
self.current_camera.set(cv2.CAP_PROP_FPS, 30)
```

### Camera Properties

List all available camera properties:

```bash
v4l2-ctl -d /dev/video0 --list-ctrls
```

## Recommended Workflow

1. **Setup**: Position microscope and coin
2. **Focus**: Adjust focus for clarity
3. **Light**: Ensure even, bright lighting
4. **Preview**: Use live preview to check framing
5. **Capture**: Take the photo
6. **Review**: Check image quality before proceeding
7. **Repeat**: Capture multiple angles if needed

## Tips for Best Results

- **Clean coins**: Gently clean coins before scanning (if appropriate for the coin type)
- **Stable surface**: Use a stable surface to avoid camera shake
- **Multiple images**: Capture obverse, reverse, and edge views
- **Detail shots**: Take close-ups of interesting features or defects
- **Consistent lighting**: Use the same lighting setup for all coins
- **Regular calibration**: Periodically check focus and alignment

## Support

If you continue to experience issues:

1. Check the main [README.md](../README.md) troubleshooting section
2. Review Docker logs: `./log -t backend`
3. Test camera outside Docker: `ffplay /dev/video0`
4. Verify OpenCV installation: `docker-compose exec backend python -c "import cv2; print(cv2.__version__)"`

For hardware-specific issues, consult your microscope's manual or manufacturer support.

Commit message:

feat: allow scanning obverse + Reverse for each coin AI should populate the records if values already present are missing Scannnig details allow re-scanning Interraction added if re-scanning needed (poor quality).

docs/MICROSCOPE_SETUP.md, after:

# Digital Microscope Setup Guide

This guide will help you set up and configure your digital microscope with Nomisma.

## Supported Microscopes

Nomisma is designed to work with USB digital microscopes that support the UVC (USB Video Class) protocol. The default recommended model is:

- **DM7-Z01C 4.3 inch Digital Microscope**

However, most USB microscopes should work, including:
- Jiusion Digital Microscope
- Plugable USB Digital Microscope
- AmScope Digital Microscope
- Any UVC-compatible USB camera/microscope

## Hardware Setup

### 1. Physical Connection

1. Connect the microscope to your computer via USB
2. On Linux, the device should appear as `/dev/video0` (or `/dev/video1`, `/dev/video2`, etc.). Some devices also expose `/dev/media*` nodes.
3. Verify the connection:
   ```bash
   ls -l /dev/video*
   ls -l /dev/media*
   ```

### 2. Permissions (Linux)

If you encounter permission errors, add your user to the `video` group:

```bash
sudo usermod -a -G video $USER
```

Then log out and log back in for changes to take effect.

### 3. Test the Camera

Test if the camera works with:

```bash
# Install v4l-utils if not already installed
sudo apt-get install v4l-utils

# List video devices
v4l2-ctl --list-devices

# Test camera
ffplay /dev/video0
```

## Docker Configuration

Microscope access is enabled via the optional `docker-compose.microscope.yml` override file:

```yaml
services:
  backend:
    devices:
      - /dev/video0:/dev/video0
      - /dev/media0:/dev/media0
    privileged: true
```

Start with the override:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.microscope.yml up -d
```

### Multiple Cameras

If you have multiple cameras or the microscope is not `/dev/video0`, update `docker-compose.microscope.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  backend:
    devices:
      - /dev/video1:/dev/video1  # Change to your device
      - /dev/media1:/dev/media1
```
Some microscopes expose multiple `/dev/video*` nodes for the same device. In that case, try the alternate node listed by `v4l2-ctl --list-devices`.

## Application Setup

### 1. Start the Application

```bash
./start
```

### 2. Navigate to Scan Coin Page

Open http://localhost:3000/scan in your browser.

### 3. Select Camera

The application will automatically detect available cameras. Select your microscope from the dropdown.

### 4. Adjust Focus and Lighting

- Position the coin under the microscope
- Adjust the microscope's focus wheel for a clear image
- Ensure adequate lighting (most microscopes have built-in LED lights)

### 5. Capture Images (Both Sides)

Capture the obverse first, then follow the prompt to scan the reverse. If the app flags the image as blurry or poorly lit, rescan the same side before proceeding.

## Optimal Image Capture

For best AI analysis results:

### Lighting
- Use the microscope's built-in LED lights
- Ensure even lighting across the coin surface
- Avoid harsh shadows or glare

### Focus
- Adjust focus until details are sharp
- Capture the entire coin face in the frame
- Ensure text and design elements are clearly visible

### Positioning
- Center the coin in the frame
- Keep the coin flat and parallel to the lens
- Capture both obverse (front) and reverse (back) separately

### Resolution
- The application automatically sets the camera to maximum resolution
- Typical resolution: 1920x1080 or higher
- Higher resolution = better AI analysis

## Troubleshooting

### Camera Not Detected

**Problem:** No cameras appear in the dropdown

**Solutions:**
1. Check USB connection
2. Verify device appears in `/dev/video*`
3. Restart Docker containers:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart backend
   ```
4. Check Docker logs:
   ```bash
   ./log -t backend
   ```

### Permission Denied

**Problem:** "Permission denied" error when accessing camera

**Solutions:**
1. Add user to video group (see above)
2. Check device permissions:
   ```bash
   ls -l /dev/video0
   ```
3. Ensure Docker has privileged access (set in `docker-compose.microscope.yml`)

### Poor Image Quality

**Problem:** Blurry or dark images

**Solutions:**
1. Clean the microscope lens
2. Adjust focus manually
3. Increase LED brightness
4. Ensure coin surface is clean
5. Try different camera settings in the application

### Camera Already in Use

**Problem:** "Camera is already in use" error

**Solutions:**
1. Close other applications using the camera
2. Restart the backend container:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart backend
   ```

### Wrong Camera Selected

**Problem:** Laptop webcam selected instead of microscope

**Solutions:**
1. Use the camera dropdown to select the correct device
2. Disconnect other cameras if possible
3. Check camera index in the application

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom Resolution

To set a custom resolution, modify `backend/app/services/microscope.py`:

```python
def open_camera(self, camera_index: int = 0) -> bool:
    # ...
    self.current_camera.set(cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH, 2592)  # Your width
    self.current_camera.set(cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT, 1944)  # Your height
```

### Frame Rate

Adjust FPS if needed:

```python
self.current_camera.set(cv2.CAP_PROP_FPS, 30)
```

### Camera Properties

List all available camera properties:

```bash
v4l2-ctl -d /dev/video0 --list-ctrls
```

## Recommended Workflow

1. **Setup**: Position microscope and coin
2. **Focus**: Adjust focus for clarity
3. **Light**: Ensure even, bright lighting
4. **Preview**: Use live preview to check framing
5. **Capture**: Take the photo
6. **Review**: Check image quality before proceeding
7. **Repeat**: Capture multiple angles if needed

## Tips for Best Results

- **Clean coins**: Gently clean coins before scanning (if appropriate for the coin type)
- **Stable surface**: Use a stable surface to avoid camera shake
- **Multiple images**: Capture obverse, reverse, and edge views
- **Detail shots**: Take close-ups of interesting features or defects
- **Consistent lighting**: Use the same lighting setup for all coins
- **Regular calibration**: Periodically check focus and alignment

## Support

If you continue to experience issues:

1. Check the main [README.md](../README.md) troubleshooting section
2. Review Docker logs: `./log -t backend`
3. Test camera outside Docker: `ffplay /dev/video0`
4. Verify OpenCV installation: `docker-compose exec backend python -c "import cv2; print(cv2.__version__)"`

For hardware-specific issues, consult your microscope's manual or manufacturer support.
